Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
More Info
Visit Flock
Kalamazoo MI PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Fri Sep 18 2026

Overview

The Kalamazoo Department of Public Safety (KDPS) uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence while safeguarding individual privacy. KDPS uses the system to conduct retroactive searches in support of criminal investigations and receive real-time alerts when vehicles associated with wanted persons, stolen vehicles, or other legitimate law enforcement interests are detected.

To promote transparency, accountability, and appropriate use, KDPS has established clear policies and safeguards governing the technology. These policies, along with system usage statistics, are available to the public below.

Community Impact
Featured Success Stories

Recent Success Story

• Homicide Investigations:
Of the last eight homicides solved by KDPS, License Plate Reader (LPR) data was instrumental in every case. Since 2021, LPRs have played a critical role in solving 23 homicide investigations. Overall, murders are down 53% compared to five years ago, prior to the implementation of FLOCK.

• Gun Violence Reduction:
LPR data is reviewed following virtually every shots-fired and non-fatal shooting incident. Since implementation, assaults with firearms are down 49%, and overall reports of shots fired have decreased 57% compared to five years ago.

• Child Abduction Recovery:
In 2021, a vehicle was stolen from a convenience store with two children inside (ages 18 months and 5 years). Using LPR data, officers located the vehicle in under two hours, and both children were safely recovered.

• Property Crime and Theft:
Following a series of storage unit burglaries involving over $100,000 in stolen property, LPR data identified the suspect vehicle, leading to arrests and recovery of a significant portion of the stolen items. Overall property crime is down 39% compared to five years ago.

• Human Trafficking Investigations:
LPRs have been used multiple times to identify and apprehend individuals involved in the sex trafficking of women and children.

• Auto Theft Reduction:
FLOCK cameras have significantly improved the recovery of stolen vehicles and identification of suspects. Motor vehicle theft is down 35% compared to five years ago, prior to LPR implementation.

• Drug Overdose Investigations:
In April 2023, officers responded to 18 overdoses resulting in seven deaths. FLOCK data was instrumental in identifying the individual responsible for distributing the drugs, leading to multiple convictions for overdose-related deaths.

• Kidnapping Response:
In July 2023, a suspect assaulted residents and kidnapped an infant belonging to his ex-girlfriend. A FLOCK camera captured the suspect’s vehicle leaving the city. Within 25 minutes, the vehicle was stopped and the child was safely returned to the mother.

• Mobile Nuisance Parties:
FLOCK cameras have become a critical tool in addressing long-standing issues with Mobile Nuisance Parties, using LPR data to identify and track vehicles involved in repeated violations.

Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

LPR Cameras

Number of LPR cameras only.

40

Unique Vehicles Detected

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

301,343

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

1,065

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCMEC Amber Alert, Wisconsin DOJ, MI LEIN

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

7,512

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to Kalamazoo MI PD data.

Battle Creek MI PD
Kalamazoo County MI SO
Kalamazoo Township MI PD
Michigan Department of Corrections (MDOC)
Michigan State Police
Portage MI PD
Western Michigan University MI PD
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Kalamazoo MI PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, Inquiries on who is accessing reproductive health, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.

Public Search Audit

Download to view searches performed over the last 30 days.

Download CSV
SOC 2 Type II

Independently audited controls covering security, availability, and confidentiality.

ISO 27001

Information security management aligned with international standards.

Adherence to Key Privacy Principles

Built to focus on data minimization, purpose limitation, and transparency.

Myth vs. Fact
Myth

Flock has been hacked.

Fact

Flock's cloud environment has never been breached. Flock invests in a strong security posture, including adhering to NDAA, SOC2 (Type II), ISO 27001, ISO 27018 FedRAMP 20x, and Higher Education Community Vendor Assessment Tool (HECVAT) compliance. Additional security precautions include Role-Based Access Controls, data encrypted at-rest and in transit, required Multi-Factor Authentication, and regular penetration testing.

Myth

Flock sells and/or shares customer data.

Fact

Your community owns 100% of your data and it will never be sold. Only your agency decides who to share your data with, not Flock. Flock Safety does not publicly release agency search data. Flock does not operate or support any public-facing searchable database of law enforcement lookups, and we do not provide license plate search histories to websites or third parties without the agency's knowledge and authorization. Other agencies who you share footage with have been responding to FOIA requests and sharing this search data.

Myth

My data is fed into a national database.

Fact

Each agency controls access to its own data. Agencies may choose to share information through a broader network, but nothing is shared automatically. Participation is opt-in, governed by defined agreements, and limited to lawful investigative purposes.

Myth

Flock cameras use facial recognition.

Fact

Flock cameras do not use facial recognition technology. Searches are based on vehicle characteristics, and not identity. Flock cannot recognize, identify, or track individuals. It is purpose built for specific public safety investigations, not to monitor people.

More Info

Can officers identify a vehicle owner using ALPR data?

No. Officers cannot identify a vehicle owner using ALPR data alone. Registered owner information can only be accessed through a separate, secure, state-controlled database (LEIN). Access to motor vehicle records is governed by the federal Driver’s Privacy Protection Act (DPPA).

Provided by Flock Safety