Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
More Info
Visit Flock
Holland MI PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Sat Sep 19 2026

Overview

The Holland Department of Public Safety (HDPS) employs Flock Safety's automated license plate recognition (ALPR) technology as a investigative and public safety tool. ALPR delivers still images of vehicles, which can lead to investigative breakthroughs through searches after incidents are reported. It also offers real-time alerts for stolen vehicles or license plates, vehicles linked to wanted persons, missing or endangered individuals and other critical public safety issues.

Since the implementation of ALPR technology, HDPS has experienced a significant positive impact on investigations and overall crime reduction efforts. Leads generated by ALPR have been instrumental in identifying and slowing down criminal activity, recovering stolen vehicles and property, supporting investigations into thousands of dollars in reported losses, solving cases that might otherwise have remained unresolved, and locating missing or endangered individuals in Holland City and across Michigan.

Criminal activities, stolen vehicles, and missing persons cases often cross jurisdictional lines. Therefore, responsible sharing of information with authorized law enforcement partners enables agencies to connect evidence, identify related criminal activities, and respond more swiftly in urgent situations.

HDPS utilizes ALPR technology with clearly defined safeguards. All searches must include a reason for the search, offense type and include a valid complaint number. All system activity is logged and reviewed by the Captain of Investigations and an audit process is in place. HDPS does not use ALPR information for civil immigration enforcement purposes.

This transparency portal offers the public access to HDPS's ALPR policies, including safeguards, data retention practices, and usage statistics. Our goal is to showcase the public safety benefits of this technology while also ensuring accountability in its usage.

Community Impact
65
MICHIGAN SUCCESS STORIES IN THE NEWS
Featured Success Stories

Holland Department of Public Safety News

2023- FSC used to solve a homicide where victim was listening to music in his vehicle before he was shot several times through the driver's door. Victim was found deceased when officers arrived. FSC used to verify suspect and witness movements prior to the murder. This information added credibility to the witness statements. Assisted in building a timeline for the incident which are vital in homicide investigations.

2023- Homicide solved using FSC system where two victims were shot inside a vehicle. One victim passed away after a bullet entered the left side of her heart. FSC was used to identify the suspect vehicle before and after the murder. The vehicle was located solely on information received from our FSC system. System was also used to verify information received from associates of the suspect and suspect movement after the murder.

2024- An Endangered subject was diagnosed with Alzheimer and Diabetes. He takes insulin every morning at 0900 hours which he does not have with him. He likely left the residence at 0300 hours in MI/----. Multiple FSC hits showed his vehicle being in Wyoming, MI at 0501 hours. He was located by surveillance units utilizing FLOCK to narrow down his location

2024- Female was entered into LEIN as Missing Endangered. Endangered left Holland around 1330 hours and was enroute to Inkster, Michigan to visit family. Endangered was driving a vehicle which was plated and a description of the vehicle was given to officers. Officers utilized this information to search FSC cameras and managed to obtain a match to the endangered vehicle in Dearborn. Detectives used this information to coordinate with other agencies in Michigan to locate the subject who was not harmed.

2025- FSC cameras were used in shooting/arson of a vehicle. a drive-by shooting into a house and an arson of a vehicle days later at the same house. Detectives were able to use limited information on a vehicle to enter into the FSC system to generate a lead. Based on the time frames of both incidents they were able to match the same vehicle to both incidents. Owner of the vehicle was arrested and confessed to both crimes.

2025- Assisted an MSP team in locating a fugitive who had threatened to kill a detective once the suspect learned he had sold narcotics to an undercover detective. MSP advised that the suspect was possibly in the Muskegon area but working in Ottawa County. Detectives utilized FSC to locate the suspect while on his way to work. Ottawa County Deputies assisted taking the suspect into custody.

2026- FSC was used in a multi-state fraud/identity theft investigation. Suspects rented U-haul vehicles to commit a variety of crimes. License plate information of the rented U-haul vehicles were obtained by detectives and the FSC system was used to locate the suspect vehicles in the Grand Rapids area. Suspects were arrested and several items of evidence were located inside the U-haul vehicles.

2026 Detectives were working an extensive narcotics investigation in the Holland area. Numerous arrests were made throughout the investigation, but one individual was outstanding and was difficult to locate. Detectives received a tip on a possible boyfriend of the suspect. FSC was used to locate the vehicle that led detectives to a new apartment, not known to detectives. During the investigation the suspect fugitive was seen outside the apartment and was taken into custody.
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

22

Total Number of Plates searched by HPD

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

244
Top 5 Offense Types

Offense Types used for LPR searches in the last 30 days.

Weapons Offense (Guns/Shots Fired)
Assault/Battery Offenses
Hit and Run/Car Accident
Larceny/Theft Offenses
Assault/Battery Offenses (Domestic)
Policy & Trust

Holland City ALPR System

Our cameras are strictly still photograph cameras. They do not record any movements or actions. (Written within our department policy as well)

Our cameras capture one moment in time and show the back of a vehicle and the license plate.

Our cameras also show date, time and location of the camera providing the photo.

What the ALPR System Does Not Do

Does not record audio or video.
Does not show or provide any information about the occupants of the vehicle.
Does not run the license plate or registered owner through the Secretary of State.
Does not provide GPS data or tracking information.
Does not use facial recognition technology.
Does not continuously track an individual's movements.
Does not use data to issue traffic tickets.
Does not capture demographic data.
Does not capture cell phone information or IP address data.
Does not provide immigration information or status

What the ALPR System Does Do

The System focuses on vehicles- not people.

Vehicles checked in the system are very limited and specifically selected based on information gathered by officers or detectives during law enforcement investigations.

These Checks are case-driven and because a vehicle is associated with criminal activity, wanted suspects, or lost individuals.

Each check requires justification by entering a complaint number and law enforcement reason for the check into the system. (Policy strictly limits to law enforcement only)

Each check is completely tracked and able to be audited.

What the ALPR System Does Do

From January 1, 2026 through August 31, 2026 the percentage of searches in the system by HPD staff in comparison to the number of license plate reads by HPD cameras= .0187%.

An extremely high percentage of information comes into the system and is automatically deleted after 30 days without ever being viewed by anyone.

In addition, if you are not involved in any criminal activity- the chance of having your vehicle viewed drops to a substantially lower percentage.

HPD ALPR Policy

When an FSC alert is received, an officer must confirm that the vehicle is still stolen, wanted, or otherwise of interest before proceeding (absent exigent circumstances). Without confirmation, a vehicle cannot be stopped solely on an ALPR alert.

Officers shall visually verify that the license plate of interest matches identically with the image of the license plate captured. Including both the alphanumeric characters of the license plate, state of issue, and vehicle descriptors before proceeding.

Because the ALPR alert relates to a vehicle plate and may not relate to the person operating the vehicle, officers need reasonable suspicion and/or probable cause to make an enforcement stop of any vehicle.

Our agency follows applicable laws and policies that govern the use of this technology, and we are committed to ensuring it is used responsibly and with appropriate safeguards, oversight, and accountability.


Click below for HDPS Policy and Procedure:

https://www.cityofholland.com/DocumentCenter/View/9508/ALPR-Policy

Public Search Audit

Download to view searches performed over the last 30 days.

Download CSV
SOC 2 Type II

Independently audited controls covering security, availability, and confidentiality.

ISO 27001

Information security management aligned with international standards.

Adherence to Key Privacy Principles

Built to focus on data minimization, purpose limitation, and transparency.

More Info

Data Security

Our cameras have no IP address that is accessible to the public.

All data collection points are equipped with secure communication protocols to protect data in transit from interception and tampering.

All data is encrypted using industry-standard algorithms.

HDPS does not sell ALPR data to any entity

Certified by the FBI's Criminal Justice Information Services (CJIS).

ALPR images and meta-data are permanently deleted and irretrievable after the retention period expires.

HDPS is committed to using the ALPR system responsibly and will hold users accountable by monthly audits.

Retention of ALPR related photos and data is stored for a maximum of 30 days, which complies with the retention requirements in the State of Michigan General Schedule 11 retention schedule for local law enforcement agencies.

Accreditation Standards

The Holland Police Department is accredited through the Michigan Law Enforcement Accreditation Commission

Accreditation standards related to ALPR were recently updated. HPD already operates within these new standards.

Our department will annually report our audit as a proof to meet the accreditation standards.

Provided by Flock Safety